---
id: '1inch'
layout: 'partner-layout'
name: "1inch"
title: '1inch case study'
description: 'How 1inch uses the Balancer DeFi protocol'
category: "DEX aggregator"
url: 'https://1inch.io/'
displayURL: '1inch.io'
analyticsCode: 'IT2JCBPM'
---

::partner-header
---
:name: 'name'
:category: 'category'
:url: 'url'
:displayURL: 'displayURL'
:analyticsCode: 'analyticsCode'
---
::

## About

1inch is a global network of decentralized protocols designed to provide the most lucrative, fastest and secure operations in the DeFi space.

The 1inch Network leverages the powerful characteristics of all popular chains, including Ethereum, BNB Chain, Polygon, Arbitrum, Optimism, Avalanche, Gnosis, Fantom, Klaytn, and Aurora, giving users ultimate flexibility for swapping digital assets.

1inch consists of several protocols. The 1inch Aggregation Protocol facilitates cost-efficient and secure swap transactions across multiple liquidity sources. The 1inch Limit Order Protocol provides the most innovative and flexible limit order swap opportunities in DeFi.

The 1inch Swap Engine, partially based on the 1inch Limit Order Protocol and the 1inch Aggregation Protocol, is a decentralized trading and matching system that connects DeFi users with practically limitless liquidity — both centralized and decentralized — through professional market makers. The 1inch Swap Engine facilitates Fusion mode, which empowers DeFi users to place orders with a specified price and time range, paying no network fees.

## How it uses Balancer protocol

1inch integrates with new and innovative Balancer pool types like Boosted Pools to facilitate cost-efficient swaps. For example, the 1inch integration with the new Balancer Boosted Pool type, led to a significant increase in swap volume through the Balancer Boosted Aave USD pool (bb-a-USD).
