---
id: 'aura'
layout: 'partner-layout'
name: "Aura"
title: 'Aura case study'
description: 'How Aura uses the Balancer DeFi protocol'
category: 'Yield booster'
url: 'https://aura.finance/'
displayURL: 'aura.finance'
analyticsCode: 'F1NHJWK3'
---

::partner-header
---
:name: 'name'
:category: 'category'
:url: 'url'
:displayURL: 'displayURL'
:analyticsCode: 'analyticsCode'
---
::

## About

Aura is an autonomous, non-custodial platform built to boost the yield and governance power of Balancer users and beyond. Aura Finance is designed to provide maximum incentives to Balancer liquidity providers and BAL stakers (into veBAL) through social aggregation of BAL deposits and Aura’s native token.

For BAL stakers, Aura provides a seamless onboarding process to veBAL, by creating a tokenized wrapper token called auraBAL that represents the 80/20 BPT locked up for the maximum time in VotingEscrow. This can be staked to receive existing rewards (BAL and bb-a-USD) from Balancer, in addition to a share of any BAL earned by Aura, and additional AURA. This minting process is irreversible however users can trade their auraBAL back to BAL through an incentivised liquidity pool.

For Liquidity providers, Aura abstracts complexity of depositing into the Balancer gauge system, providing a smooth onboarding process to all Balancer gauge deposits. Aura allows depositors to achieve a high boost through the protocol owned veBAL while also accumulating additional AURA rewards.

The AURA token acts as a governance and incentivisation tool within the ecosystem. Locked AURA tokens will have governance rights in the system and will be able to vote using the protocol owned veBAL voting power as well as on internal proposals.

## How it uses Balancer protocol

Aura Finance is a protocol built on top of the Balancer veBAL tokenomics system.

## Further reading

- [The DeFi Legends Behind Aura's Multisig](https://blog.aura.finance/stronger-together-the-defi-legends-behind-auras-multisig/)
- [Introducing the Migrator](https://blog.aura.finance/introducing-the-migrator/)
