---
id: 'kassandra'
layout: 'partner-layout'
name: 'Kassandra'
title: 'Kassandra case study'
description: 'How Kassandra uses the Balancer DeFi protocol'
category: 'Asset Management'
url: 'https://kassandra.finance'
displayURL: 'kassandra.finance'
analyticsCode: 'H72UHXIS'
---

::partner-header
---
:name: 'name'
:category: 'category'
:url: 'url'
:displayURL: 'displayURL'
:analyticsCode: 'analyticsCode'
---
::

## About

Kassandra is a decentralized asset management platform that offers a simplified approach to creating and investing in tokenized portfolios.

The primary use case of Kassandra is to allow managers the creation of Managed Pools, which are customizable baskets of fully collateralized crypto-assets, represented as on-chain ERC20 tokens that investors can invest in. Managers using Kassandra can select tokens straight from their wallets, create their own tokenized portfolio, and start making money with management fees.

Kassandra is built on top of [Balancer's Managed Pools](https://docs.balancer.fi/concepts/pools/managed.html), and tokenized portfolios created using Kassandra work in a special way compared to other asset management platforms. Tokenized portfolios are always tight to target allocation percentages, and the protocol will constantly rebalance asset holdings to meet the target allocations.

## How it uses Balancer protocol

Kassandra uses the Balancer protocol's Managed Pools to create and manage tokenized portfolios. Through Managed Pools, Kassandra takes advantage of features like weighted math, gradual weight updates, swap fee adjustments, and pause swaps to customize portfolio compositions, mitigate risks, and optimize performance. The protocol enables Kassandra's managers to maintain control over asset allocations, incentivize liquidity providers, and collect management fees based on Assets Under Management (AUM). By leveraging Balancer's infrastructure, Kassandra offers a decentralized asset management platform that combines flexibility, fine-grained control, and efficient portfolio rebalancing for investors.
